# Poetic function (assignment 2)

## Presentation

- Think about a **'function'** (see below for more context), **write its protocol**, and **design it** in a (semi) interactive way.
- In the format of an **(interactive) HTML page** or a **serie of HTML pages** that uses CSS and a bit of JavaScript.
- You can be **down-to-earth** or pragmatic, but also more **wild** and subjective about your input, your function, and your output. This is **up to you**.

Schedule:

- **11 November**: introduction of the assignment
- **18 November**: individual/small group follow-up on the assignment (4h)
- **25 November**: individual/small group follow-up on the assignment (2h)
- **2 December**: individual/small group follow-up on the assignment (2h)
- **9 December**: delivery and presentation of the assignment in class

## What is a function?

In short:

`Noun`
- an **activity** that is natural to or the **purpose** of a **person or thing**. *"bridges perform the function of providing access across water"*
- `MATHEMATICS`, a **relation or expression** involving **one or more variables**. *"the function (bx + c)"*

`Verb`, work or **operate in a proper or particular way**. *"her liver is functioning normally"*

### Examples:

- Functions of **“life”**: [...] *the basic functions of an organism is to consume energy and molecules in foods, convert some of it into fuel for movement, sustain body functions, and build and maintain body structures.*
- Functionality of **“rooms”**: [...] *the layout of a house requires to adequately understand the functions of each room in relation to architectural universal rules and the specific needs of the inhabitants.*
- Functions of the **“economy”**: [...] *the four functions of an economic system is what to produce, how much to produce, how to produce, and to whom to distribute.*
- Functions of **“emotions”**: [...] *emotions are specific reactions to a particular event. For example, you feel annoyed when your favourite team loses a game, or excited when you are being visited by a loved one you haven't seen for a while.
- **“Social”** functions: [...] the manifest function of education is to teach children skills/knowledge and familiarize them with social norms. [...] ... but social functions contain inequalities. In other words, [...] all institutions/practices are not beneficial to all individuals [...] the social function of some institutions was also to oppress and constrain many members of society.
- Examples of **mathematical** functions in real life include: Estimating animal populations; Determining risk factors for insurance rates, etc.

Or: **A soda, snack, or stamp machine**

```
The user puts in money, punches a specific button, and a specific item drops into the output slot.

The function rule is the product price.
The input is the money combined with the selected button.
The output is the product, sometimes delivered along with coins in change,
if the user has entered more money than required by the function rule.
```

(source: [www.educationworld.com](https://www.educationworld.com/a_curr/mathchat/mathchat010.shtml) )

## To do for next class:

1) **Think of a function**
   - **Input**
   - - What are the elements/values you need for your function (numbers, text, objects, actions, tangible or subjective)
   - **The function itself**
   - - What does your function do? Does it dilute, summarize, make things complicated, help, explains, constaint us, or is the consequence of an action...
   - - How does it do it: it takes your 'input', applies conditions (if/else), then transforms it differently based on that and generates an output.
   - - Is it a function that strictly applies to yourself? A function of general use? Can it be useful for others? Or should it be dismantled?
   - **Output**
   - - What output is generated by your function? What does that represent?

2) **Map it**
   - **make a plan** (draw it) of how it work, like a **tree map**.
   - Think about your 'variables' (inputs).
   - Think about you 'conditional statements' (**if/else**, **true/false**, **number values**).
   - Think about your outputs (what is produced, what is the result of your function).
   
4) **Write in english**:
   - 5-6 sentences about it based on what you've done above. Describe how it works in **simple, plain language**.

5) This will be **your material for next class** and the continuation of the assignment. During next class, you will have to think about how to translate your 'function' as an web experience, and sketch ideas.

## For after

You will produce a small web project that materialises your function and how it works in a semi interactive way.

Think about:

- The use of **several webpages** to **convey** the **input**, 'path' (**function process**) and the **output**. Each pages can be linked to others depending on when the **conditions** can be met or not.
- The use of JavaScript for creating **basic interaction** (buttons that change parts of the page when clicked, simple comparisons with JavaScript).
- How the pages should **look like in CSS** and what **text** content should be there.
- The **visitor/viewer**. Shall they relate to your function, shall they use it, shall they be 'caught' in it, or shall they 'reject' it. Shall the visitor provide input themselves?

